so hamas's October the 7th attack has
been described as Israel's 9911 US
President Joe Biden by US President Joe
Biden while supporting Israel's right to
defend itself he also publicly warned
prime minister Netanyahu not to make the
same mistakes the US did in response a
warning that was echoed today by the UN
special reporter on counterterrorism and
human rights let's explore this further
Christen salumi is at the United Nations
in New York Kristen what mistakes are
they referring
to
well you may recall that after the
Attacks of September 11 2001 which
killed some nearly 3,000 Americans the
worst attack on us soil in history uh
that led to the war on terrorism the
so-called war on terrorism a war that
was waged according to special rapur
folad Alan uh with violations of
international law specifically she
talked about uh the rounding up of
Muslim men uh many of whom were tortured
and sent to Guantanamo Bay prison
facility without due process a facility
that continues to exist she said and
continues to uh meet standards for
violating international law specifically
uh for its degrading treatment uh cruel
and inhuman treatment of the people who
have been held there but what was really
interesting is that she said these
actions didn't have the desired effect
if anything uh the attempt to crack down
on terrorism just made it worse have a
listen for yourself to what she
said what did we learn from 911 that the
response was in deep and profound
violation of international law and the
cost of that was the perpetuation of the
cycle of conditions conducive to
violence it wasn't an end to violence it
provided the basis for fur further
radicalization further extremism
conducive to terrorism it provided um a
a global nomenclature of quote war on
terror which was not only profoundly
ineffective in preventing terrorism but
actually spawned Decades of serious and
egregious violations of international
law and Christal what was her reaction
to Israel's response to hamas's
attack
well she was unequivocal in condemning
the attack Itself by Hamas which led to
the deaths of 1400 Israelis many of them
civilians um but she also echoed what
the UN has been saying all along that
any response has to be in line with
international law civilians must be
protected hospitals must be protected
Aid must be allowed in otherwise it will
not end the cycle of violence that we've
seen in the Middle East for so long now
all right Kristen thanks for that
Kristen sui at the United
Nations